Let's have a look at how to solve a puzzle:  There are many ways to solve the puzzles.  This guide follows a systematic approach.  As you gain experience you may be able to combine several requirements together at once to reduce the amount of steps needed.  We begin with the following:

This is our starting map.  Let's scan the rows and columns for clues.

First, we check each row to see what clues we can use.  Note: - The 7 indicates that the whole row (except for the dragon) will be walls. - The 0 indicates that the whole row will be empty.

Now, we can do the same, but for the columns.  See how the 4 and 0 let us fill in walls and blank spaces respectively.

Now we can use the restriction that monsters must appear at a dead-end to fill in some more walls.  Also note: some monsters have only one available connection, so that spot must be blank.

Now we can use the restriction on chests (must be in a 3x3 walkable room), to mark some empty tiles.  There's only one valid position for each of the chests, so we know what the blank squares for the treasure room are.

With our new knowledge, we can now revisit the row and column hints, and see what else we can find. Row hints: 1st 3 -> There's only 3 spots that can have a wall, and we need 3 walls, so they must all be walls.  2nd 3 -> Same as above.

Now we can do the same but for the columns again:  1st 2 -> We already have our 2 walls, so the rest must be blank.  2nd, 3rd, and 4th 2s -> Only one spot remains for the missing wall.

Sometimes, after checking vertically and horizontally, we learn more info that can be used to solve further.  Let's check horizontally again:  3rd 3 -> There's only 2 more spots available and so they must be walls.

The treasure room must have a single exit, and there's only one spot left for it.

We can't have an empty non-treasure-room 2x2 region, so we must place a wall here.  Alternately: Column (2nd 6) -> Only one spot left for the missing wall.

Both the x-axis 2, and the y-axis 6 indicate the last square here must be a wall.

Congrats! We've done it.  Now try it out yourself!
